# Angular DevToolsAngular DevTools is a browser DevTools extension for debugging and profiling Angular applications.## Installing and Running locallyTo setup your local development environment for Angular DevTools, perform the following steps:```bashgit clone git://github.com/angular/angularcd angularyarnyarn run devtools:devserver```## Publish Angular DevToolsTo publish Angular DevTools to Firefox or Chrome stores:1. Update the version of the corresponding manifest file. Currently, Angular DevTools uses different versioning compared to the rest of the packages within the monorepo.  * `manifest.chrome.json` for Chrome  * `manifest.firefox.json` for Firefox1. Build the extension:  * `yarn devtools:build:chrome` for Chrome  * `yarn devtools:build:firefox` for Firefox1. Find the extension production assets in `dist/bin/devtools/projects/shell-browser/src/prodapp` relative to the root of the Angular monorepo1. Zip the files in the directory1. Upload them to the corresponding store### Firefox1. Go to the Firefox Addons [page](https://addons.mozilla.org/developers/addons)1. For email enter `devrel@angular.io`1. Find the password on Valentine1. Setup Google Authenticator with the 2FA QR code. You can find the QR code on Valentine### Chrome Web Store1. Go to the extension [page](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/category/extensions)1. Make sure your email is part of the Google Group we use for publishing the extension1. Navigate to "Developer Dashboard"1. Enter your account credentials1. You should be able to change the publisher to "Angular"